you might have heard that light is a
kind of wave and that the corner of an
object is related to the frequency of
light waves it reflects high frequency
light waves are violet low frequency
light waves look red and in between
frequencies like yellow green orange and
so on you might call this idea physical
color because it says that color is a
physical property of light itself it's
not dependent on human perception and
while this isn't wrong it isn't quite
the whole story either for instance you
might have seen this picture before as
you can see the region where the red and
green lights overlap is yellow when you
think about it this is pretty weird
because light is a wave two different
frequencies shouldn't interact with each
other at all they should just coexist
like singers singing in harmony so in
this yellow looking region two different
kinds of light waves are present one
with a red frequency and one with a
green frequency there's no yellow light
present at all so how come this region
where the red and green lights mix looks
yellow to us to understand this you have
to understand a little bit about biology
in particular about how humans see color
light perception happens in a paper-thin
layer of cells called the retina that
covers the back of your eyeball in the
retina there are two different types of
life detecting cells rods and cones the
rods are used for seeing in low-light
conditions and there's only one kind of
those the cones however are a different
story there are three kinds of cone
cells that roughly correspond to the
colors red green and blue when you see a
color each cone sends its own distinct
signal to your brain for example suppose
that yellow light that is real yellow
light with a yellow frequency is shining
on your eye you don't have a cone
specifically for detecting yellow but
yellow is kinda close to green and also
kind of close to red so both the red and
green cones get activated and each sends
a signal to your brain saying so of
course there's another way to activate
the red cones and the green cones
simultaneously if both
red light and green light are present at
the same time the point is your brain
receives the same signal regardless of
whether you see light that has the
yellow frequency or life that is a
mixture of the green and red frequencies
that's why for life
red plus green equals yellow and how
come you can't detect colors when it
stack well
the rod cells in your retina take over
in low-light conditions
you only have one kind of Rod cell and
so there's only one type of signal that
can get sent to your brain life or no
life having only one kind of light
detector doesn't leave any room for
seeing color there are infinitely many
different physical colors but because we
only have three kinds of cones the brain
can be tricked into thinking it's seeing
any color by carefully adding together
the right combination of just three
colors red green and blue this property
of human vision is really useful in the
real world
for example TV manufacturing instead of
having to put infinitely many colors in
your TV set to simulate the real world
TV manufacturers only have to put three
red green and blue which is lucky for
them really
you